The system's needing to communicate can be any combination of systems,
mobile phone to a Windows Server,
a mainframe system to a Java web application
or even Web service to web service communication.
For example, a web service created in a.NET platform can be
invoked by any client application
implemented in a different programming language like Java.
Due to language transparency,
you're able to develop services and
our client side code using the languages and tools you want.
For example, you may have a client application running on your mobile phone that
retrieves its data from a web service running on
a server as opposed to data stored locally on the phone.
The Uber app is a great example of this.
The Uber app is downloaded and installed locally on your cell phone.
However, that data for where
the nearest Uber driver is located is not stored locally on your phone.
The Uber mobile app makes a web service call
to retrieve that data from Uber application servers.